Snow White with the Red Hair (Japanese: 赤髪の白雪姫, Hepburn: Akagami no Shirayukihime) is a Japanese shōjo fantasy romance manga series written and illustrated by Sorata Akizuki. It was originally serialized in Hakusensha's bi-monthly shōjo manga magazine LaLa DX from August 2006 to August 2011, and was moved to the monthly LaLa in October 2011. Its chapters have been published and collected in 26 tankōbon volumes as of July 2023. An anime adaptation produced by Warner Bros., Hakusensha, Showgate, The Klockworx Co. Ltd., Hakuhodo DY Media Partners, Docomo Anime Store, BS Fuji and Bones aired from 2015 to 2016 - the first half aired in Japan from July 6, 2015, to September 21, 2015, and the second half between January 11, 2016, and March 28, 2016.


== Plot ==
Shirayuki is an herbalist in the kingdom of Tanbarun with one unique feature: her beautiful red hair, which attracts a lot of attention. Due to her hair color, Shirayuki was raised to always be careful of showing her hair in new surroundings, tying it up with a red ribbon. She grew up to be an independent young woman. The first prince of her kingdom, Prince Raj, learns of her unusual hair color and orders her to become his concubine. She refuses his orders, leaving behind her herbalist business and her long red ponytail.
Just inside the border of the neighboring kingdom of Clarines, she meets and befriends Prince Zen Wistaria and his two aides, Mitsuhide and Kiki. When Zen is poisoned by an apple meant for Shirayuki, gifted by Raj, she successfully obtains the antidote and decides to accompany the trio to Clarines. Shortly thereafter, Shirayuki passes an exam for a position to train in the palace as a royal court herbalist. Shirayuki finds a place in Clarines and works as a court herbalist, befriending the youngest herbalist, Ryu.
Prince Raj realizes his feeling towards Shirayuki and starts working hard to become a ruler that she could be proud of. In spite of external opposition due to their difference in social status and the demands of their professions, Zen and Shirayuki begin to fall in love with each other and eventually begin a romantic relationship. Later, Shirayuki promises Zen that she will wait for him.


== Characters ==


=== Main characters ===
Shirayuki (白雪)
Voiced by: Saori Hayami (Japanese); Brina Palencia (English)
Shirayuki (Snow White) is the main protagonist was born with rare red hair. She often has to hide it due to how it easily attracts attention. She escapes from the kingdom of Tanbarun after its prince orders her to become his concubine. Independent and persistent, she meets Zen on her second day in the kingdom of Clarines and befriends him after tending to his wounds. Later, she is accepted as a royal pharmacist and trains under Garack and Ryu. Shirayuki has demonstrated her abilities as a pharmacist in various situations, particularly in identifying and controlling disease outbreaks in foreign areas. She has a close relationship with Zen and falls in love with him over the course of the story despite her opposition due to their difference in social status. She moves into the east wing of Wistal Castle and is reassigned as a pharmacist to Lyrias for two years later.
Zen Wisteria (ゼン・ウィスタリア, Zen Wisutaria)
Voiced by: Ryōta Ōsaka (Japanese); Jessie James Grelle (English)
Zen is the second prince of Clarines and meets Shirayuki on a trip outside the castle. Shortly after befriending her, he is poisoned by an apple meant for Shirayuki, but obtains the antidote with her help. Initially, Zen is often seen escaping his duties to experience Clarines first-hand, though he has since taken more responsibility for official work. He has a close relationship with his three aides, Mitsuhide, Kiki, and Obi, and has both their respect and genuine loyalty. Over the course of the story, he falls in love with Shirayuki and rescues her from various dangers.
Mitsuhide Lowen (ミツヒデ・ルーエン, Mitsuhide Rūen)
Voiced by: Yūichirō Umehara (Japanese); Ian Sinclair (English)
Mitsuhide is one of Zen's closest aides. He was appointed by Prince Izana to watch over Zen (despite initially wanting to be Izana's retainer) and is a skilled swordsman. Though their relationship was initially rocky, he is seen by Zen as both a close friend and a reliable aide. He is extremely loyal though somewhat clumsy at times, as well as a little silly. In chapter 92, he is offered a marriage proposal by Kiki, which he declines. Because of his extreme loyalty to Zen, he doesn't plan to marry, as this may require him to leave Zen's side.
Kiki Seiran (木々・セイラン)
Voiced by: Kaori Nazuka (Japanese); Jamie Marchi (English)
Kiki is one of Zen's closest aides and arrives at the castle sometime after Mitsuhide. As the heir to the household of the Seiran family, her father expects her to return home to assume responsibility after her time serving Zen. Reserved, independent and intelligent, Kiki is extremely loyal to protecting Zen (and later Shirayuki as she becomes part of Zen's life) and is most often seen with Mitsuhide, Zen's other close aide. Like Mitsuhide, she is skilled at swordplay and is often seen training soldiers or dueling with him. In chapter 92, Kiki confesses and proposes to Mitsuhide, which he declines. She is later engaged to Hisame who has loved her for years, and she seems to be slowly reciprocating.
Obi (オビ)
Voiced by: Nobuhiko Okamoto (Japanese); Austin Tindle (English)
Obi is one of Zen's self-proclaimed aides. Originally sent by Marquis Haruka as a way to scare Shirayuki out of the castle, he later pledges himself to Zen after being discovered. It is hinted he has feelings for Shirayuki, but his loyalty to both Zen and Shirayuki prevents him from acting out on his feelings. Obi has a relatively mysterious past as a loner but finds himself drawn to protecting Zen, Shirayuki, and their respective goals. He later becomes Zen's official messenger. With his quick movements and reflexes, he is often sent by Zen to protect Shirayuki at times when he cannot leave his royal duties. He has been seen using the alias "Nanaki".


=== Secondary characters ===


==== Clarines ====
Ryuu (リユウ, Ryū)
Voiced by: Yūko Sanpei (Japanese); Mikaela Krantz (English)
A 12-year-old royal pharmacist and trains under Garack with Shirayuki at Wistal Castle. Both Shirayuki and he established a close friendship as pupil and mentor respectively. Due to his youth, he is often looked down upon and mistrusted by others in the palace, even though he is actually a genius. Because of his intelligence, he has a hard time connecting with people his age but becomes good friends with Shirayuki and Obi. He later learns how to open up and trust others as he grows.
Izana Wisteria (イザナ・ウィスタリア, Izana Wisutaria)
Voiced by: Akira Ishida (Japanese); Eric Vale (English)
Izana is the first prince of Clarines and Zen's older brother. He has a somewhat cold and sarcastic personality, but is also very responsible and serious when it comes to handling the affairs of the kingdom. Known to be very intelligent, strategic, and cunning, he is later crowned king of the kingdom. He enjoys teasing Zen and initially takes issue with Shirayuki's closeness with Zen, but later comes to trust her after watching her handle a disease outbreak in Lyrias. While in Lyrias, Izana pretends to be a guard using Mitsuhide's name.
Marquis Haruka (ハルカ候)
Voiced by: Tomoyuki Shimura (Japanese); Christopher R. Sabat (English)
An advisor in the castle, he disapproves of Shirayuki's closeness to Zen due to her lower social status. He hires Obi to scare her from the castle, but after an unsuccessful attempt and rebuke from Zen, is grudgingly resigned to leaving Shirayuki alone. His gruff appearance, voice, and personality often scare others.
Garack Gazelt (ガラク・ガゼルト, Garaku Gazeruto)
Voiced by: Yūko Kaida (Japanese); Rachel Robinson (English)
Garack is the chief pharmacist of Wistal Castle. She is rather eccentric and can alternate between humorous and demanding. Despite this, she is extremely talented and cares deeply about Shirayuki and Ryu.
Yatsufusa (八房)
Voiced by: Rei Yamahata (Japanese); Z. Charles Bolton (English)
Yatsufusa is Garack's assistant and is often seen wearing a large bandanna that obscures his eyes.
Viscount Blaker (ブレッカ 子爵, Burekka Shishaku)
Voiced by: Tokuyoshi Kawashima (Japanese); Duncan Brannan (English)
The viscount is the landlord of a small island on the coast of Clarines. Greedy and selfish, he attempts to exploit the island for its resources and then bribe Shirayuki in making the experiment that will determine its fate fail, but his schemes are ultimately discovered and he is put under arrest.
Kihal Toghrul (キハル・トグリル, Kiharu Toguriru)
Voiced by: Chiwa Saito (Japanese); Bryn Apprill (English)
A bird trainer from a small island under Viscount Blaker. She came to Wistal Castle to ask Zen's assistance in preventing Viscount Blaker from hunting the birds native to her island. She later befriends Shirayuki, and later proves instrumental in rescuing Shirayuki from the vicious pirate gang 'The Claw of the Sea' (along with Popo, her bird).
Higata (ヒガタ)
Voiced by: Yusuke Handa
A fellow royal pharmacist training alongside Shirayuki under a separate mentor.
Hisame Lugis (ヒサメ・ルーギス, Hisame Rūgisu)
The second-born son of a powerful noble family and vice-captain of the Sereg Knight Circle. Five years prior to canon, he tried to intimidate Kiki into marrying him by challenging her to a duel to win her hand. He wanted to escape being in service to his older brother, the future head of the Lugis family, by marrying into a different earldom. Though he lost the duel, he continues to show interest in Kiki. Hisame and Kiki formed a temporary marriage agreement out of necessity during the Bergatt incident to draw out those who were attacking Kiki's potential suitors. However, they reaffirmed their engagement after Kiki's marriage proposal to Mitsuhide was turned down. Hisame is implied to have had feelings for Kiki for years, and she seems to be slowly reciprocating.
Earl Seiran (セイラン, Seiran)
Kiki's father and the current head of the Seiran family. He wants Kiki to take over as the family head, and is constantly suggesting suitors for her. He has also imposed a time limit on her service with Zen so that she may eventually return.
Yuuha
A worker inside the castle. He insults Shirayuki after she moves into the east wing, which angers Zen.
Haruto Wisteria
Haruto is the mother of Izana and Zen, and the Queen of Clarines until Izana's coronation. Her husband, Kain, died some time ago, which sent her into a frenzy of work and sickness that caused her to become "allergic" to the castle. She returns for Izana's crowning ceremony, before shortly returning north to Wilant.
Zakura Shidnote
An associate of Izana, he has a distinct scar over his nose.
Kai Ulkir (カイ・ウルキル, Kai Urukiru)
Voiced by: Yūma Uchida (Japanese); Kyle Phillips (English)
One of the gatekeepers of Wistal Castle who seems to take interest about Zen and Shirayuki's relationship.
Shiira Eigan (シイラ・エイガン, Shīra Eigan)
Voiced by: Chiharu Sawashiro (Japanese); Cris George (English)
Another gatekeeper besides Kai. He is Kai's senior and just like Kai, he seems to take interest about Zen and Shirayuki's relationship.
Shuka (シュカ)
Voiced by: Tsubasa Yonaga (Japanese); Justin Briner (English)
A trainee soldier who is the only one unaffected when the strange disease affected the soldiers in Fort Laxdo. He helps Shirayuki to take care of the other soldiers and befriends her and the prince.
Shikito (シキト)
Voiced by: Yasuaki Takumi (Japanese); Ricco Fajardo (English)
The guard of Wistal Castle who goes along with Shirayuki and the viscount to the watchtower during the test to bring in the bird handlers from Kiharu's island for communication.


==== Lilias/Lyrias ====
Yuzuri (ユズリ, Yuzuri)
A botanist in Lyrias, a northern city in the kingdom of Clarines. Cheerful and outgoing, she works with Shirayuki during the disease outbreak and befriends her.
Suzu (鈴, Suzu)
A pharmacist and friend of Yuzuri in Lilias, he works with Shirayuki during the disease outbreak.
Haki
She is head of the Lilias academy district and Izana's fiancée.
Kirito
A boy around Ryuu's age, he is the nephew of Shidan. Kirito helped to in the search for a cure during the disease outbreak in Lyrias after his friends began to fall ill. He befriends Ryuu, though occasionally bewildered by Ryuu's emotionless behavior.


==== Lido ====
Atri (アトリ, Atori)
Voiced by: Romi Park (Japanese); Micah Solusod (English)
Zen's only close childhood friend. He worked as a palace archer in order to get close to Zen and lure him out to traitors from Lido. During a confrontation with Zen, Izana, and Mitsuhide, he is killed.


==== Tanbarun ====
Raj Shenazard (ラジ・シェナザード, Raji Shenazādo)
Voiced by: Jun Fukuyama (Japanese); Todd Haberkorn (English)
The prince of Tanbarun, orders Shirayuki to become his concubine after hearing of her red hair. When she escapes, he sends her poisoned apples that are mistakenly consumed by Zen. After discovering the true status of his unintended victim, he gives Zen the antidote. Raji is rather narcissistic and ignorant and often speaks without thinking. After being befriended by Shirayuki later in the story, he begins to mature as he embraces his duties as a prince. He has a close aide named Sakaki and two younger siblings.
Rona and Eugena Shenazard
Voiced by: Inori Minase (Rona) and Mikako Komatsu (Eugena) (Japanese); Alexis Tipton (Rona) and Megan Shipman (Eugena) (English)
The younger twin siblings of Raji, the first princess and second prince of Tanbarun respectively. They support the relationship between Raji and Shirayuki.
Sakaki (サカキ)
Voiced by: Katsuyuki Konishi (Japanese); Robert McCollum (English)
Raj's close aide. He frequently answers questions addressed to the prince.
King Shenazard (シェナザード王様, Shanmezādo-ousama)
Voiced by: Atsushi Miyauchi (Japanese); Kent Williams (English)
King Shenazard is the king of Tanbarun and the father of Raji, Rona, and Eugena. He allows Zen and the others to go find Shirayuki with Raji when she was captured by Sea's Talon.
Mihaya (巳早)
Voiced by: Toshiyuki Toyonaga (Japanese); Clifford Chapin (English)
The third son of the Former Earl of Sisk, he kidnapped and planned to "present" Shirayuki to rich people to earn money. He later brings a kidnapping attempt on Shirayuki to Zen's attention and helps to rescue her from pirates. He ends up working for Prince Raji's aid, Sakaki, in Tanbarun.


==== The Mountain's Lions ====
Mukaze (武風, Mukaze)
Voiced by: Tōru Ōkawa (Japanese); Brandon Potter (English)
Leader of the Mountain's Lions, a group dedicated to eradicating thieves. Mukaze also happens to be Shirayuki's father, a former noble of Tanbarun before his exile as a result of taking back his fiancée (Shirayuki's mother) when she was sent to be wed to his uncle. He held a grudge against Prince Raji since hearing that he had tried to forcefully take Shirayuki as a mistress, and as a result, forced her to flee the country. Additionally, Shirayuki was told that he deeply regretted not having been there to help her in time during said ordeal.
Kazuki (鹿月)
Voiced by: Sachi Kokuryu (Japanese); Justin Pate (English)
Often mistaken for female due to his "pretty" looks. He is a member of the Mountain's Lions, and kidnaps Shirayuki with the help of Itoya. He befriends Shirayuki when the pair of them are captured by the Sea's Talons.
Itoya (イトヤ)
Voiced by: Shintarō Asanuma (Japanese); David Trosko (English)
A member of The Mountain's Lions, he has a scar over left eye. He helped Kazuki during Shirayuki's abduction.


==== The Claw of the Sea ====
A pirate organization that is known for human trafficking. Kazuki was once a member, but left the organization after being traded to a rich nobleman. Kazuki and Shirayuki were kidnapped by them to provoke the Mountain Lions.

Umihebi (ウミヘビ, , lit. "Sea Snake")
Voiced by: Mitsuki Saiga (Japanese); Monica Rial (English)
Umihebi is the leader of the gang. A ruthless and violent woman, she and her gang members were later rounded up by palace guards and arrested in their base in Tanbarun.


==== Others ====
Torou (トロウ, Torou)
Voiced by: Nana Mizuki (Japanese); Elizabeth Maxwell (English)
An old associate of Obi's, she is surprised by his change after he joined Zen's group.


== Media ==


=== Manga ===
Snow White with the Red Hair is written and illustrated by Sorata Akizuki. It was serialized in Hakusensha's bi-monthly shōjo manga magazine, LaLa DX from August 10, 2006, to August 10, 2011, and later moved to the monthly LaLa on October 24, 2011 and is published in collected volumes by Hakusensha. As of July 2023, 26 volumes have been published in Japan. The eleventh volume ranked 21st in Oricon's weekly manga ranking for the week of January 6, 2014.It has been licensed in North America by Viz Media, in France by Kana, and in Taiwan by Sharp Point Press.


==== Volume list ====


=== Anime ===
An anime television series adaptation was announced in the 2015 April issue of Hakusensha's LaLa magazine. The anime adaptation was produced by Warner Bros., Hakusensha, Showgate, The Klockworx Co. Ltd., Hakuhodo DY Media Partners, Docomo Anime Store, BS Fuji, and Bones, which handled the animation. The anime was directed by Masahiro Andō and the script was written by Deko Akao with character designs by Kumiko Takahashi. The opening theme was "Yasashii Kibou" (やさしい希望, lit. "Gentle Hope") by Saori Hayami and the ending theme was "Kizuna ni Nosete" (絆にのせて) by Eyelis. Funimation licensed the series for streaming and DVD/Blu-Ray release in North America. AnimeLab acquired the streaming rights in Australia and New Zealand. Muse Communication licensed the series for streaming in Southeast Asia. An original anime DVD (OAD) was bundled with a limited edition release of the 15th manga volume, adapting three additional chapters of the manga (chapter 41, and both Volume 7's and 11's special chapters), which did not initially air on television. The OAD ending theme is "Ginsekai" (銀世界, lit. Snowy World) by Eyelis.
The second season of the anime television series aired in Japan from January 11, 2016 to March 28, 2016. The opening theme was "Sono Koe ga Chizu ni Naru" (その声が地図になる, lit. "The Voice Will Become A Map") by Saori Hayami and Ending theme was "Page ~Kimi to Tsudzuru Monogatari~" (ページ 〜君と綴る物語〜, lit. Page-The Story To Write With You) by Eyelis.


=== Episode list ===


==== Snow White with the Red Hair ====


==== Snow White with the Red Hair 2nd Season ====


== References ==


== External links ==
Official manga website (in Japanese)
Official anime website (in Japanese)
Snow White with the Red Hair (manga) at Anime News Network's encyclopedia