Baku Yumemakura (夢枕 獏, Yumemakura Baku, born 1951 in Odawara, Kanagawa) is a Japanese science fiction and adventure writer. His works have sold more than 20 million copies in Japan spread across more than 280 titles and adapted into a variety of formats including feature films, television shows, movies and comic books.
His works are influenced by outdoor interests such as fishing, particularly Ayu fishing, mountain climbing, canoeing as well as manga, photography, pottery, art, calligraphy, martial arts.  He has published a number of photo collections of his journeys through Nepalese mountains.
He is best known for writing Jōgen no Tsuki wo Taberu Shishi (The Lion that Ate the Crescent Moon), which won both the Seiun Award and the Nihon SF Taisho Award. He also has written film scripts, including the one to Onmyoji.
One of his popular martial arts serials that has been adapted into manga is "Garouden "餓狼伝" (legend of the hungry wolf), known in the west as "The legend of the fighting wolves" that has also two videogames to date.
He's been nicknamed "The artisan of violence" due to one of his popular martial arts novel series "Shishi no Mon" (獅子の門 Gate of fierce lions) and as of 2014 he's been working on the scripts of a manga series "Shin Garouden" with renown manga artist Masami Nobe
He is also a past president of Science Fiction and Fantasy Writers of Japan.


== Early life ==
Baku Yumemakura was born on January 1, 1951, in Odawara-shi. At the age of 22, he graduated from Tokai University with a degree in Japanese literature.
In 1975, he visited Nepal for the first time; the region would become host to one of his most popular works, The Summit of the Gods, which became a French-made anime film in 2021, Le Sommet des Dieux.


== Career beginnings ==
In 1977, his first works were published in the science fiction coterie magazines Neo Null curated by Yasutaka Tsutsui and Uchūjin curated by Takumi Shibano.  A typographic experiment story titled Kaeru no Shi,  dubbed as "Typografiction", was published in Neo Null and received a great deal of attention within the industry; it was reprinted in the science fiction magazine Kisou Tengai, which became his first appearance in commercial magazine.  He followed this success by releasing the novella Kyojin Den and enjoyed enough success to become a full-time author.
His first standalone title was published in 1979, Nekohiki no Oruorane, in the Shueisha Cobalt Collection. His first full-length novel, Genjū Henge, was published two years later by Futabasha Corporation. Then, in 1982, the first volume of the Kimaira Kou Series, Genjū Shōnen Kimaira, was published by Asahi Sonorama Paperbacks, with cover and illustrations by Yoshitaka Amano. The Majūgari trilogy was published by Shodensha in 1984.


== Collaborators ==
Over the span of his career, Baku Yumemakura worked with a wide range of historically important figures in the Japanese art scene.

Yoshitaka Amano - He was in charge of stage design for Nayotake produced by Bandō Tamasaburō V, where Amano introduced him to Baku Yumemakura. The three would also collaborate on Yang Guifei, with Baku Yumemakura writing the lyrics and Yoshitaka Amano in charge of stage design. The manga Amon Saga was written by Baku Yumemakura and illustrated by Amano and was later adapted into an OVA. Among other Baku Yumemakura's works, he also did the illustrations and cover page design for Garouden, Taitei no Ken and Yamigarishi, as well as the Kimaira series. He was key visual and costume designer for movies written by Baku Yumemakura including Onmyoji (film), Onmyoji 2 and Taitei no Ken. They also collaborated on the story and pottery of Yōkihi no Bansan, for both a book and exhibition, in addition to ceramic work by Shōkoku Kanō.
Katsuya Terada - He was in charge of the book cover and illustrations for the Kimaira series written by Baku Yumemakura, and was in charge of cover design and illustrations for Garouden, Shin Majugari, and Yamigarishi.
Osamu Tezuka - Baku Yumemakura was influenced by one of his seminal works, Phoenix. Baku Yumemakura would go on to write the script for Boku no Son Goku.
Reiko Okano - She is married to the Osamu Tezuka's son, Makoto Tezuka, and Onmyōji was drawn by Reiko Okano and received the Tezuka Osamu Cultural Manga Award. She went on to produce the serialized version as Onmyōji Tamatebako in the comic magazine Melody.
Keisuke Itagaki - In 1996, he began working on Garouden, an original work by Baku Yumemakura. He has also collaborated on the series Garouden Boy.
Ken Ishikawa - In 1994 he drew the manga Tsukumo Ranzō (九十九乱蔵) based on the Yamigarishi series, and in 1998 the manga Amon Saga - Tsuki no Miko (アーモンサーガ 月の御子) based on Baku Yumemakura's novel Tsuki no Ou.
Jiro Taniguchi - Illustrated Baku Yumemakura's works, Garouden from 1989 to 1990 and Kamigami no itadaki (The Summit of the Gods) from 2000 to 2003. Kamigami no itadaki" received awards at the Angoulême International Comics Festival in 2002 and 2005.
Yōjirō Takita - In 2001, he directed Onmyoji. It became an international hit and received a prize at The Neuchâtel International Fantastic Film Festival in 2002. He directed Onmyoji 2 in 2003.
Yukihiko Tsutsumi - Directed Taitei no Ken, an original work by Baku Yumemakura, in 2007.
Bandō Tamasaburō V - The dance production Yōkihi is based on the Chinese historical figure Princess Yang Guifei. Baku Yumemakura wrote the lyrics. In 1993, Baku Yumemakura wrote specially for Kabuki Sangoku denrai genjō banashi. Both of Yōkihi and Sangoku denrai genjō banashi were performed at The Kabuki-za Theater.
Mansai Nomura - He played Abe no Seimei in Onmyoji and Onmyoji 2. He received the Best Actor prize at the Blue Ribbon Awards for his work in Onmyoji.


== Translated works ==
1 - (October, 2012). Demon Hunters: Desires of the Flesh


== Works in print in Japanese ==
The following works have been released in Japan.


== References ==

The Encyclopedia of Science Fiction page 641
Garouden


== External links ==
SFWJ
J'Lit | Authors : Baku Yumemakura | Books from Japan (in English)
Baku Yumemakura at the Internet Speculative Fiction Database
Baku Yumemakura at IMDb