Hello! Lady Lynn (ハロー!レディリン, Harō! Redi Rin) is the second season of the anime series, Lady Lady!!, produced by Toei Animation Co., Ltd. It consists of a total of 36 episodes and was aired on Thursdays from May 12, 1988 to January 26, 1989 on TV Tokyo. Based on the Japanese shōjo manga Lady!!, by Youko Hanabusa.


== Story ==
3 years after Lady!!, Lynn is starting a new life in her new home, living separately from her family. Her sister Sarah is living at her grandfather's place at Woburn Castle, while her father works endlessly to earn money to take back The Marble Mansion. She is studying at Saint Patrick Academy, a distinguished school famous for horse riding. Making friends, as well as rivals, along the way to attaining the prestigious honor, Lady Crest. With her noble steed Andrews, will they overcome obstacles that come in their way to reach their goal? And can Lynn come back to her old home?


== Characters ==
Lynn Russell (リン·ラッセル, Rin Rasseru)
Voiced by: Kumiko Nishihara
Lynn is a cheerful and friendly 8-year-old girl who slowly wins the affections of the people around her. She is a first-year student at Saint Patrick Academy and a member of equestrian club. When she befriends the unruly horse, Andrews, she becomes the center of attention of the town, as well as the object of ire and envy of her schoolmates who are eying  Lady Crest.
Andrews (アンドリュウス, Andoryuusu)
Andrews is an Arabian horse. He has characteristically bay or chestnut in color. He was formerly Vivian's steed. He has a fear of squirrels. He inherited his marvelous skills from his mother, Gloria.
Sarah Frances Russell (セーラ·フランシス·ラッセル, Sēra Furanshisu Rasseru)
Voiced by: Chiharu Kataishi
Sarah is Lynn's elder half sister. After losing The Marble Mansion, she is now living at Woburn Castle, her grandfather's place. Kind and caring, she is often concerned of her younger sister's well-being. Despite living separately, she and Lynn still share a strong bond. They both have golden heart-shaped lockets given to them by their father, The Viscount of Marble. In the locket is a picture of the three of them as well as the words engraved that characterize a true Lady: Merciful, Courageous, and Noble. As a skilled flutist, she has a tendency to play the flute whenever she is troubled or in deep thought, and sometimes to comfort her grandfather.
George Russell (ジョージ·ラッセル, Jōji Rasseru)
Voiced by: Rokuro Naya
George is Sarah and Lynn's father. After losing The Marble Mansion, George is working hard to pay all of his debts and regain it from the bank. He is frequently away but loves his children dearly.
Misuzu Midorikawa (緑川 美鈴, Midorikawa Misuzu)
Voiced by: Mika Doi
Misuzu is Lynn's deceased mother. She died in a car crash three years ago. She appears in her dreams to encourage her whenever she is downhearted.
Arthur Drake Brighton (アーサー·ドレイク·ブライトン, Āsā Doreiku Buraiton)
Voiced by: Shigeru Nakahara
Arthur is the eldest son and heir of the noble Brighton family. He is in love with Sarah.
Edward Brighton (エドワード·ブライトン, Edowādo Buraiton)
Voiced by: Keiichi Nanba
Edward is Arthur's younger brother and Lynn's childhood friend. He is a student at Winston Churchill Boarding Academy. Good-looking and a skilled equestrian, Edward is the object of Vivian's affections . However, he is in love with Lynn.
The Duke of Woburn (ウォーバン公爵, Wōban-koushaku)
Voiced by: Hidekatsu Shibata
Richard Russell is George's Father and Sarah and Lynn's Grandfather
Isabel Montgomery (イザベル·モンゴメリ, Izaberu Mongomeri)
Voiced by: Reiko Mutō
Isabel is the Countess Montgomery and she lives at Montgomery Mansion where Lynn is living at.
Sophie Montgomery (ソフィ·モンゴメリ, Sofi Mongomeri)
Voiced by: Yūko Mita
Hailing from France, Sophie is the Granddaughter of The Countess Montgomery. At the beginning of the series, she puts up a sweet and innocent facade while scheming to put Lynn in a bad light in order to ensure that the Countess' inheritance will go to her family. She loves her mother dearly and does what it takes to please her even though she knows that actions against Lynn were wrong. Fear of being lonely in her life, she is afraid of being put into a dormitory. Lynn, being naïve, cared for her as her little sister and understands what she is going through. Though Sophie has a mother, she does not feel any motherly love from her. After the incident her pet squirrel Roi, Sophie changed her attitude towards Lynn and become friendly with her. She usually carries a doll around with her, the only gift she received from her mother on her birthday.
Jeanne Montgomery (ジャンヌ·モンゴメリ, Jannu Mongomeri)
Voiced by: Kazuko Yanaga
Jeanne is Sophie's mother. Threatened by Lynn's closeness with the Countess Montgomery, she used her own daughter to make sure that they will be the ones to inherit the Countess' inheritance, frequently threatening Sophie to return her to the Boarding School.
Vivian Spencer (ヴィヴィアン·スペンサー, Bibian Supensā)
Voiced by: Maria Kawamura
Vivian is the captain of Saint Patrick Academy girls' equestrian club. She is renowned as the "queen" of horseback riding because of her outstanding performance in horsemanship and is admired by her peers. Strict and exacting, she is a gifted equestrienne. She is the former rider of Andrews and current rider of Elizabeth. Threatened by Lynn's popularity when she managed to tame Andrews, Vivian treats Lynn harshly. Her feeling of dislike for Lynn is further fueled when she notices that Edward is more interested in Lynn than in her. She allied herself with Mary, who also resented Lynn for ruining her mother's marriage arrangement and to become one of the nobility classes. After the accident, Vivian's attitude towards Lynn gradually changes and began to accept her and even support her in her struggles. She is often accompanied by her entourages Phyllis and Matilda.
Phyllis (フェリース, Ferīsu)
Voiced by: {{{1}}}
Phyllis is a classmate and friend of Vivian and Matilda. She is a member of girls' equestrian club. Like Vivian, Phyllis and Matilda are discontented with Lynn thinking that they will be outdone by a junior who is not affiliated with them.
Matilda (マチルダ, Machiruda)
Voiced by: {{{1}}}
Matilda is the bespectacled friend of Vivian and Phyllis. She is a member of girls' equestrian club.
Catherine Baker (キャサリン·ベーカー, Kyasarin Bēkā)
Voiced by: Mayumi Shou
Catherine or Cathy, is Vivian's close cousin. She is a transferred first-year student and a newest member of the girls' equestrian club in Saint Patrick Academy. Keen and intelligent, she is a talented equestrienne and only first-year allowed to ride Elizabeth. Unlike her cousin, she sees Lynn as a good friend and a commendable rival. She is also competing for the tournament championship and for the Lady Crest.
Philip Anderson (フィリップ·アンダーソン, Firippu Andāson)
Voiced by: Hiroshi Takemura
Philip is the captain of the St. Patrick Academy boys' equestrian club and an acquaintance of Edward. Like Edward, he is good-looking and a skilled equestrian. He occasionally hangs around at girls' equestrian club's premises to see Vivian practicing. He has feelings for Vivian though he does not want to admit it to her, knowing that she has feelings for Edward.
Zara (サラ)
Voiced by: Miyoko Aoba
Lynn's friend and classmate. She is also a member of equestrian club.
Dorothy (ドロシー, Doroshī)
Voiced by: Yuko Minaguchi
Lynn's friend and classmate. She is quite timid around people. She recently joined the equestrian club.
Suzie (スージー, Sūjī)
Voiced by: Kimie Hangai
Suzie is one of Lynn's classmate and a member of school's disciplinary committee. She is also a member of tennis club, and Mary's underclassman. She is quite discontented with Lynn after the incident with Andrews and the attention she is getting.
Headmaster (校長, Kouchou)
Voiced by: Kōji Yada
His name was not mentioned in the series; he is the headmaster of Saint Patrick Academy. He is an old acquaintance of Countess Isabel Montgomery and her late husband.
Eric (エリック, Erikku)
Voiced by: Michitaka Kobayashi
Eric is Paul and Nancy's elder brother. Ever since their parents died, he has been running a small shop to support his younger siblings.
Paul (ポール, Pōru)
Voiced by: Tsutomu Kashiwakura
Paul is Eric's younger brother and one of Lynn's friends.
Nancy (ナンシー, Nanshī)
Voiced by: Saori Suzuki
Nancy is Eric and Paul's younger sister.
Peggy (ペギー, Pegī)
Voiced by: Shino Kakinuma
Peggy is the daughter of a general store's owner.
Henry (ヘンリー, Henrī)
Voiced by: Yonehiko Kitagawa
Henry is the household butler and chauffeur working at Montgomery Mansion. Aside his job, he is also knowledgeable about horseback riding, training and helping Lynn at home to further improve her skills with Andrews.
Patricia (パトリシア, Patorishia)
Voiced by: Mariko Mukai
She is the maid working at Montgomery Mansion.
Jim Clark (ジム·クラーク, Jimu Kurāku)
Voiced by: Kouichi Hashimoto
Jim is the shaggy coach employed by the headmaster to teach horse riding at Saint Patrick Academy's both boys and girls equestrian clubs. Despite his looks, he is young and good at equestrian skills.
Barbara Merton (バルバラ·マートン, Barubara Mēton)
Voiced by: ?
Barbara is a skilled equestrian from another school and an acquaintance of Cathy. She first appeared on episode 14, as one of the observing spectators during Lynn and Cathy's preliminary competition for the Junior Grand Nationals. Like the two, Barbara is also competing for tournament together with her friends Betty and Anne.
Betty Grant (ベティ·グラント, Beti Guranto)
Voiced by: ?
Betty is the freckled blonde equestrian and a friend of Barbara and Anne. She is another competitor participating in the tournament finals.
Anne Caster (アンネ·キャスター, Anne Kyasutā)
Voiced by: ?
Anne is an equestrian from another school and a bespectacled friend of Barbara and Betty. Like her friends, she is also competing in the tournament finals.
Mary Waverley (メアリ·ウィバリー, Meari Wibarī)
Voiced by: Rihoko Nagao
Mary is the daughter of Magdalene Waverley and granddaughter of Victor Reynolds. She appeared on episode 22 and continued to the latter half of the series. Mary returned from Geneva, Switzerland and is enrolled at Saint Patrick Academy, after learning that Lynn is also studying there. She resented Lynn for ruining her mother's marriage arrangement three years ago and to become one of the nobility classes, and wants to take revenge by manipulating misfortunes that befall on her and use it to her advantage. She joined the tennis club, being a skilled tennis player. Like other girls in the academy, she also aiming for the Lady Crest. Though Vivian allied herself with her, Mary has other plans of her own. She will do anything to eliminate her rivals from obtaining the Lady Crest, even putting others in harm's way.
Victor Reynolds (ビクター·レイノルズ, Bikutā Reinoruzu)
Voiced by: Takeshi Aono
Victor is the president of one of Britain's largest company. He is Magdalene's father and Thomas and Mary's grandfather, subtly he wants to buy the Marble Mansion after the arson fire it happened and he dislikes George because of he refused to marry his daughter, which made her hating London along with Thomas.
Narrator
Voiced by: Reiko Mutō


== List of episodes ==


== Music ==
Opening Theme"Lady Crest ~Opening the Door~" (レディ·クレスト〜扉を開けて〜, Redi Kuresuto ~Tobira wo Akete~)
Lyrics by Mitsuko Shiramine
Composition by Ryo Matsuda
Arrangement by Keiichi Oku
Performed by Kaori Moritani
Courtesy of Columbia RecordsEnding Theme"Portrait of Wild Roses" (野ばらの肖像, Nobara no Shouzou)
Lyrics by Mitsuko Shiramine
Composition by Masae Nanbu
Arrangement by Keiichi Oku
Performed by Kaori Moritani
Courtesy of Columbia Records


== Staff ==
Director: Hiroshi Shidara
Producer: Kazuo Yokoyama, Hiromi Seki
Episode Director: Toshihiko Arisako, Yasuo Yamayoshi
Character Design: Kazuhiro Ochi
Art Design: Takao Sawada
Storyline: Tomoko Konparu
Planning: Hiromi Seki, Kazuo Yokoyama
Production Manager: Yoshiro Sugawara
Music: Kōhei Tanaka
Production Company: Toei Animation Co., Ltd., Toei Advertising, Ltd.


== References ==


== External links ==
Toei Animation's Official Website: Hello! Lady Lynn (in Japanese)
Author's Official Website: リンのマーブル館 (in Japanese)
TOEI Animation Europe: Hello! Lady Lynn Archived 2009-05-18 at the Wayback Machine
Hello! Lady Lynn (anime) at Anime News Network's encyclopedia