Fox Spirit Matchmaker (Chinese: 狐妖小红娘; pinyin: Húyāo Xiǎo Hóngniáng; Japanese: 縁結びの妖狐ちゃん, romaji: Enmusubi No Yōko Chan) is a Chinese romance manhua work painted by Tuo Xiaoxin (庹小新) and colored by Pansi Daxian (盘丝大仙). It was originally published on the magazine Manhua Show (漫画SHOW) since 2012 until the magazine's cancellation but continued on Tencent Animation & Comics. On June 26, 2015, it was animated in Tencent Video. Today it has been broadcast more than 120 episodes. In Tencent Animation 2nd PV competition it passed the group stage and in the final with 35,838 votes to win the first. In July 2018 it was temporarily removed after Bilibili was named and criticised by CCTV. In 2017, It was praised by People's Daily as the first donghua which gets such the highly recognition in Chinese state official newspaper.


== Introduction of story ==
The story revolves around the love between humans and spirits. According to classical novel records, there are spirits in the world, spirits will love people, the life of the spirit for thousands of years, humans' lifespan is limited, humans die, spirits live. People will give birth to reincarnation, but after the birth, do not remember the love of the previous life. If the spirit is infatuated, go to the fox spirit "buy" a service, so that the person who cast the tire reincarnation, recall the love of the previous life.
The role of the fox spirit was born, the work mainly tells the story of the fox spirit as a career in the red line process of the former lovers in a series of interesting, mysterious story.


== Main characters ==
Bai Yuechu(白月初, Voiced by Yang Tianxiang(杨天翔))
The main actor of the story, the fifth reincarnation of Dongfang Yuechu(东方月初). He is obsessed with money and food and he is the fiancé of Tushan Susu. He is a special individual created by Aolaiguo Sanshao(傲来国三少). He has Tushan Honghong(涂山红红)'s spirit power. He was strictly controlled by Yiqi Taoist League(一气道盟), but because of an agreement signed 500 years ago between Tushan and Yiqi Taoist League, He got freedom.
Tushan Susu(涂山苏苏, Voiced by Liu Xiaoyu(刘校妤))The main actress of the story, who always carries a variety of snacks, the spirit power is very low. She is Tushan Honghong herself because of the loss of spirit power and become smaller, but also because of memory as the cause of reincarnation and forget everything. Only blood that has been drunk from Bai Yuechu in certain conditions can be temporarily restored. She calls Bai Yuechu Mister Taoist(道士哥哥) and Bai calls her Little fool(小蠢货).
Tushan Yaya(涂山雅雅, Voiced by Zhang Kai(张凯)), elder sister of Tushan Rongrong(涂山容容) and Tushan Susu. She has the strongest spirit power in Tushan at present and she is the leader of Spirit League.Tushan Rongrong(涂山容容, Voiced by Qiao Shiyu(乔诗语)), the smartest fox spirit and second boss in Tushan.Wang Fugui(王富贵, Voiced by Wei Chao(魏超)), a rich play boy. He is reincarnation of Wangquan Fugui(王权富贵), a member of Yiqi Taoist League.Bai Qiuen(白裘恩, Voiced by Tu Meng Ha Te(图特哈蒙)), father of Bai Yuechu(白月初), obsessed with money and food. He's currently the team leader of Yiqi Taoist League(一气道盟).


== Animated plot ==
The donghua has several arcs. They are Xiasha Chapter(下沙篇), Wangquan Chapter(王权篇), Yuehong Chapter(月红篇), Beishan Yaodi Chapter(北山妖帝篇), Qianyan Chapter(千颜篇), Nanguo Chapter(南国篇), Zhuye Chapter(竹业篇), Weisheng Chapter(尾生篇), Jinchenxi Chapter(金晨曦篇), Mutiancheng Chapter(沐天城篇) and Liangshenghua Chapter(两生花篇). Each chapter tells a story and they jointly promote the development of the main line plot.


== Broadcast ==
The Japanese language was broadcast on Tokyo MX from July 1, 2017 to December 16, 2017. The content was adapted from Chinese. But it had only 24 episodes and the plot ended with Beishan Yaodi Chapter.
Since Zhuye Chapter, the broadcasting rights only belong to Tencent Video.


== Comic book ==
The original work is the comics published on Tencent Animation & Comics. In May 2016, the work was published as tankōbon books based on the comics, the name of the series books is Under the Acacia Tree (Chinese: 相思树下, pinyin: Xiāngsīshù Xià).


== Network movie ==
On December 4, 2020, Fox Spirit Matchmaker official Weibo released its first movie post and PV called Yuehong II (Chinese: 月红贰).On August 14, 2021, Fox Spirit Matchmaker Yuehong II network movie was broadcast on Tencent Video.


== TV series ==
In 2020 June, Tencent Pictures, IQIYI and Stellar Media(恒星引力) announced that Fox Spirit Matchmaker would be turned into a TV series called Tushan Matchmaker(涂山小红娘, Tushan Xiao Hongniang). The TV series will be presented by Wangquan chapter and Yuehong chapter. However, some animation fans thought this would change their inherent awareness and attitude about animation characteristics.


== Mobile game ==
At UP2018 Tencent New Creative Ecology Conference on April 23, 2018, Tencent announced that they would develop a game of the same name. The game was operated by Tencent Game Aurora Studios and tested publicly in November 2019. It uses Unity3D as its engine and game type is MMORPG with traditional Chinese style. Players will play through the God's-eye view and help Tushan Susu complete the missions. It allows players to truly get involved in the game and feel the charm of gaming without abruptness.Currently available for PC, iOS, and Android.


== Influence and events ==
When Fox Spirit Matchmaker appeared, it has had a lot of impact, there have high clicks on many major platforms. To enrich Chinese culture industry and improve cultural travel level, Tencent has carried out many multi-faceted cooperation.In December 2018, Hangzhou Animation Bus officially joined hands with Tencent Animation to launch No.51 "pure love bus". The main character Tushan Susu, was awarded the "animation public transport image messenger" official status. In May 2019, the "Fox Spirit Matchmaker" large-scale pure love parade series of activities opened in Hangzhou.On September 16, 2019, Hangzhou Lin'an District Government, Tencent Animation, Hangzhou Hongyi Investment Group Co., Ltd. held a signing ceremony in Hangzhou, announced that in Hangzhou Lin'an District Heqiao ancient town and Liuxi river area, with the "Fox Spirit Matchmaker" as the core, the three parties jointly build China's first National manhua theme tourist attractions, the total project projection area of more than 6 square kilometers. The project plans to restore the scenes and characters in the original Fox Spirit Matchmaker through large-scale real-life construction. This scenic spot appeared digitally in the 16th China International Comics and Animation Festival in 2020.In the second half of 2019, Tencent created a "Red Line Inn" live experience area with the theme of "pure love" in Yulong Snow Mountain, Lijiang, Yunnan Province. Tushan Susu was also awarded the title of "Lijiang City Smart Arts and Animation Ambassador" by Lijiang City Culture and Tourism Bureau.In July 2020, Fox Spirit Matchmaker and other donghua were shown as a live dubbing show for scenes in Shanghai International Film Festival.In 2021, Fox Spirit Matchmaker organized a trip called "linking traditional culture" to Shandong, Jiangsu, Zhejiang, Anhui, Yunnan and other destinations to explore the origin of some Chinese classics and legends, such as the Legend of the White Snake, Butterfly Lovers, The Cowherd and the Weaver Girl and Tian Xian Pei with China Digital Culture Group Co., Ltd. and Culture & Tourism China.


== Award records ==
China International Comics Festival Golden Dragon Award "2017 Best Comics".
2017 ACG Fengshen Shengdian Won "Most Fan Appeal 2D Animation Works".
China's game list "Popular Comics of the Year" award.
The 3rd Golden Number Entertainment Award and 2018 Outstanding Works of China's Entertainment Industry.
2018 China Entertainment Industry Best Original Works Award.
2018 China's entertainment industry the second "Stars share virtual stars fashion festival" Tushan Susu won the China Virtual Idol Glamour Award for best original works.
2018 Outstanding Original Work Award.


== External links ==
Fox Spirit Matchmaker Tencent Video site
Fox Spirit Matchmaker Tencent Comics site
Haoliners Animation League official site
Garden-Culture official site


== References ==