Love Com (Japanese: ラブ★コン, Hepburn: Rabu★Kon, sometimes spelled Love*Com), also known as Lovely Complex, is a Japanese romantic comedy manga series written and illustrated by Aya Nakahara. It was published by Shueisha in Bessatsu Margaret from 2001 to 2007, with its chapters collected in 17 tankōbon volumes. The series is about the romance between a tall girl and a short boy who are treated as a comedy duo by their classmates.
The story has been adapted as a live-action film released in 2006, a 24-episode anime television series broadcast in 2007, and an adventure game released for PlayStation 2 released in 2006. Two drama CDs have also been produced. The manga and the live-action film were licensed in North America by Viz Media. The anime series was later licensed by Discotek Media, who also re-licensed the live-action film.
Two spin-off stories, Love Com Deluxe (published in Deluxe Margaret in 2009) and Love Com Two (published in Betsuma Two in 2012), were collected in a single volume in 2012.
In 2004, Love Com received the 49th Shogakukan Manga Award for the shōjo category.


== Plot ==
Love Com is a love story between a boy and a girl in Sakai, Osaka. The girl, Risa Koizumi, is 172 centimetres (5 ft 8 in) tall—much taller than the average Japanese girl. The boy, Atsushi Ōtani, is 156 cm (5 ft 1 in)—way below the height of the average Japanese boy. Because of this, the pair are called the "All Hanshin Kyojin" after a popular comedy duo that has a similar height difference.
During summer school, a very tall student named Ryouji Suzuki (from another class) shows up and Risa immediately falls for him because he is tall. There is a girl that Atsushi likes as well, so Risa and Atsushi decide to put aside their differences and help each other get their love interests. Their efforts fail spectacularly as Suzuki and the girl whom Ōtani had a crush on, Chiharu Tanaka, end up becoming a couple. All is not lost though, since Risa and Ōtani become close friends. As they get to know each other better, Risa's feelings for Atsushi begin to blossom, and her love life gets complicated from there on.


== Characters ==
Risa Koizumi (小泉 リサ, Koizumi Risa)
Portrayed by: Ema Fujisawa
Voiced by: Akemi Okamura (anime), Risa Hayamizu (drama CD, video game) (Japanese); Amber Lee Connors (English)
Risa Koizumi is not an average Japanese high school girl. Standing 172 centimetres (5 ft 8 in) tall, Risa stands taller than the average height of Japanese boys let alone Japanese girls (the average height for a female is 158 cm (5 ft 2 in)). In the anime she states that she has always been the tallest person in her class. Ironically, her surname means "small fountain". She and other characters compare her to a giraffe. Risa can be impulsive and strong-willed at times, and is rarely willing to display her softer side. She had a crush on Suzuki before he started dating Chiharu.
Risa starts developing feelings for Ōtani and soon admits to herself that she likes him. She then starts trying to confess. Failing the first time, Nobuko and Nakao try to help with Nobuko often giving Risa advice on what to do. Finally she very directly tells him. She immediately regrets it, and tells Ōtani to pretend it never happened, but in spite of herself she tells Ōtani once again that she likes him. Ōtani responds that he cannot see her as a girlfriend yet, so her new goal is to make Ōtani regret that and make him like her as well.
Atsushi Ōtani (大谷 敦士, Ōtani Atsushi)
Portrayed by: Teppei Koike
Voiced by: Akira Nagata (anime), Takahiro Sakurai (drama CD, video game) (Japanese); Howard Wang (English)
Atsushi Ōtani is one of the main characters. He is very short for a boy, standing 156 centimetres (5 ft 1 in). Like Koizumi, Ōtani's surname (roughly, "big valley") is a pun on his diminutive stature. He can be thoughtless and rude but he is kind and a little silly at heart. Ironically, Ōtani also happens to be the star player of the school basketball team. He reveals he wants to go to University after graduation to get his teaching certificate. He dreams of teaching basketball to elementary school students.
His ex-girlfriend is Mayu Kanzaki, the manager of his middle-school basketball team. She broke up with him for a much taller boyfriend, and this is one of the reasons Ōtani is sensitive about his height. He later finds out that his lack of height was not the reason that she broke up with him; it was because she was in love with someone else already who just happened to be tall. He does not know quite yet how he feels about Risa when she confesses her feelings for him, and responds that he cannot see her as a girlfriend (at the time). He later realizes that he does care for her, and he kisses her. Later on in the series, Ōtani gets the wrong idea when Risa does suspicious things with her co-worker Kohori, and then breaks up with her. However, after seeing how devoted she is to him, Ōtani reconsiders and they make up on Christmas Eve.
Nobuko Ishihara (石原 信子, Ishihara Nobuko)
Portrayed by: Nami Tamaki
Voiced by: Saori Higashi (Japanese); Hayden Daviau (English)
Fashionable and charming, Nobu is Risa's best friend. She is generally wiser than Risa or Chiharu in the ways of love, and is always ready to offer her advice. She is usually the one who sets up all the 'alone time' moments with Risa and Ōtani. Unfortunately her efforts tend to end in failure and Risa returns to her for comfort. She is utterly in love with her boyfriend, Nakao, and is always calling him her 'honey', 'darling', and 'baby'. Whenever Otani upsets Risa, she and Nakao express their disapproval, usually through means of torture and insults.
Heikichi Nakao (中尾 平吉, Nakao Heikichi)
Portrayed by: Yusuke Yamazaki
Voiced by: Yasuhiko Tokuyama (anime), Kenjiro Tsuda (drama CD, video game) (Japanese); Alejandro Saab (English)
Nobu's boyfriend and Ōtani's best friend. Considerate, sensitive, mild-mannered and easygoing., Nakao is absolutely dedicated to Nobu, and when he is not playing basketball with Ōtani, he can usually be found helping with her match-making schemes. Despite the fact that Otani is his best friend, Nakao and Nobu-chan are seen multiple times insulting and torturing him, usually after Otani rejects or upsets Risa.
Chiharu Tanaka (田中 千春, Tanaka Chiharu)
Portrayed by: Risa Kudo
Voiced by: Kazuko Kojima (anime), Ai Maeda (drama CD, video game) (Japanese); Sarah Wiedenheft (English)
One of Risa's closest friends, Chiharu has such a shy, demure personality that she fears most boys her own age. Ōtani once harbored a crush on her (she resembles Kanzaki, his ex-girlfriend, or vice versa), but Chiharu instead fell for the gentle Suzuki. The two are now a couple. When everybody starts making college plans, Suzuki and Chiharu applied for the same college, but Suzuki got rejected. He sadly tells Chiharu somebody else would be able to protect her. For the first time, Chiharu breaks out of her shy character and violently lifts up a desk and throws at him (narrowly missing), frustrated that Suzuki thinks he can be replaced. They later make up and Suzuki promises to join Chiharu in her new school the next year.
Ryoji Suzuki (鈴木 涼二, Suzuki Ryoji)
Portrayed by: Hiro Mizushima
Voiced by: Kenjiro Tsuda (anime), Masaya Onosaka (drama CD, video game) (Japanese); Aaron Dismuke (English)
Chiharu's boyfriend. Suzuki's cool demeanor is often mistaken for standoffishness, and so he has few friends. Oblivious to Risa's crush on him, he develops feelings for Chiharu, and eventually asks her out. Like Chiharu, Suzuki is shy and easily embarrassed. When he fails to get into the same university as Chiharu, he promises to try again the year after.
Haruka Fukagawa (深川 遥, Fukagawa Haruka)
Voiced by: Masaya Onosaka (anime), Ryotaro Okiayu (drama CD) (Japanese); Tom Lafflin (English)
A handsome, effeminate young man who developed a childhood crush on Risa when she defended him from a gang of bullies. Though he is popular with many of the other girls (dating seven at a time and towards chapter 52 dates 2 more for a total of nine), he says it is all preparation for when he goes out with Risa, despite the fact that she always rejects him. According to Risa, his grandmother is English. It is also suggested that he might have a crush on Seiko. He never tires of insulting Otani, (his most frequently used insult is "Midget"), and is constantly pestering Risa about her feelings for him, stating that Otani is not good enough for her.
Mayu Kanzaki (神崎 真由, Kanzaki Mayu)
Portrayed by: Mio Kato
Voiced by: Yuki Matsuoka (Japanese); Elizabeth Quedenfeld (English)
She is Ōtani's ex-girlfriend. She and Chiharu look very similar, which is the most likely reason that Ōtani had a crush on Chiharu. They started dating in middle-school, and she was the manager for the school basketball team. She broke up with him because she was in love with someone else who was tall, leaving him completely heartbroken and causing his inferiority complex.
She invites Ōtani to the team Christmas party, and though Ōtani accepts, he ends up going to the Umibōzu concert with Risa instead. She then visited Ōtani's school to see him, but encountered Risa and Nobu. Risa is convinced that Ōtani is still in love with Mayu, so she goes to clear up a misunderstanding. It is then that Mayu tells him that she did not break up with him because of his height. However, she appears again later, after having broken up with her boyfriend. When she asks to meet up again, he says: "Sorry, I can't because if I do there'll be an idiot who'll cry."
Kuniumi Maitake (舞竹 国海, Maitake Kuniumi)
Portrayed by: Shosuke Tanihara
Voiced by: Junichi Suwabe (Japanese); Gianni Matragrano (English)
Student teacher at Risa and Ōtani's school. Maitake, who prefers the nickname "Maity" or "Mighty", is taller than Risa and extraordinarily good-looking. He bears a resemblance to "Cain-sama", a character in one of Risa's favorite visual novels, and soon acquires a legion of female fans. Gaining affection from Risa, Ōtani soon becomes jealous and quickly starts to realize his feelings for her. It is later revealed he has a fiance - named Jody - much to the disappointment of his fan club - and that he is Haruka's cousin.
Mimi Yoshioka (吉岡 美々, Yoshioka Mimi)
Voiced by: Kae Araki (Japanese); Marissa Lenti (English)
Ōtani's next door neighbor. She is in love with Ōtani and brings him milk every day in hopes that he would one day grow taller. She is about the same height as Risa. Mimi harbors a burning hatred and jealousy for Risa because (despite her having the same height issue as Mimi) she had won Ōtani's heart. She comically switches between her alter egos, acting sweet towards Ōtani, yet sour to Risa behind his back. Eventually, she accepts that Ōtani likes Koizumi but swears that she will someday take Ōtani from Koizumi.
Kazuki Kohori (小堀 和希, Kohori Kazuki)
Voiced by: Hiroki Shimowada (Japanese); Kdin Jenzen (English)
A young student who works part time with Risa in Ikebe. He is notably shorter than her, although slightly taller than Ōtani (158 cm.), and has distinctive black hair with a red streak. Risa soon discovers that he is also an avid Umibouzu fan. He very soon develops feelings for Risa, who admits to herself that she finds him 'cute'.  Against her better judgment, Risa attends an Umibōzu concert with Kohori which leads to complications in her relationship with Ōtani. He even proclaims his love for Risa, which causes Ōtani to give him a right hook. Around chapter 60 in the manga, Risa's classmate Abe is shown to have a crush on Kohori and is dating him.
Seiko Kotobuki (寿 聖子, Kotobuki Seiko)
Voiced by: Fujiko Takimoto (anime), Rika Komatsu (drama CD) (Japanese); Siv Ryan (English)
A blonde who has a large crush on Ōtani. She is transgender and was born a male, and states that God placed her in a wrong body. She prefers to be called Seiko instead of Seishiro (birth name) because it sounds more feminine. She kissed Ōtani to confess her feelings while she is tending to Ōtani's injury in the school infirmary. Ōtani got a shock when he found out Seiko's real sex, but still chooses to be her friend. In the manga, she has a crush on Haruka and confessed to him in the same manner she did with Ōtani. When Seiko was planning on confessing to a man who saved her from a creeper, her voice became deeper and not "cute", therefore Seiko cut her long hair and decided to become "a dangerous man", choosing Ōtani as her master. But then it seemed that only a cold was making Seiko's voice change, and she went back to her chirpy, female self.
Umibōzu (海坊主)
Portrayed by: Susumu Terajima
Voiced by: Smokey Tetsuni, Hisao Egawa (Japanese); Brent Mukai (English)
A popular rapper whom both Risa and Ōtani are avid fans of, leading to Nobu's suggestion that the two are compatible. Risa and Ōtani accidentally cross paths with Umibōzu while on a class trip, and learn that he is actually a devoted family man, with a wife and son with a similar story of how they became a couple. He is named after the mythological creature Umibōzu due to his bald head.
Ms. Matsubara (松原さん, Matsubara-san)
Voiced by: Keiko Tsukamoto (Japanese); Natalie Van Sistine (English)
The manager in charge at the restaurant where Risa works.  She wears glasses and is quite nosy. When she is intoxicated, she turns wild, and does things that she will not remember the next day.
Kiyoji Nakano (中野 清司, Nakano Kiyoji)
Voiced by: Masashi Hirose (Japanese); Marc Swint (English)
Homeroom teacher at Risa and Ōtani's class. He gave Risa and Atsushi the nickname "All Hanshin Kyojin."
Risa's senpai
Portrayed by: Shugo Oshinari
Dancing Yoshiko
Portrayed by: Eiji Wentz


== Creation and development ==
According to the afterword of volume 6, Ōtani ("big valley") was going to be named Nakatani ("middle valley"), but Aya Nakahara changed her mind because naka was "too middlin." Almost all of the characters speak in Kansai dialect.


== Media ==


=== Manga ===
Written and illustrated by Aya Nakahara, Love Com was serialized in Shueisha's shōjo manga magazine Bessatsu Margaret from 11 August 2001 to 13 November 2006. Additional chapters, released under the title Love Com Plus (ラブ★コン プラス), were published in the same magazine from 13 March to 12 May 2007; a final chapter, released as Love Com Final (ラブ★コン ファイナル), was published in the same magazine on 11 August of that same year. Shueisha collected its chapters in 17 tankōbon volumes, released from 25 March 2002 to 25 September 2007.The manga is licensed in English in North America by Viz Media, who published the volumes from 3 July 2007 to 2 March 2010. The Viz edition is licensed for distribution in Australia and New Zealand by Madman Entertainment, which released volume one in May 2008.The series is also licensed in France by Delcourt, in Italy by Planet Manga, in Mexico by Grupo Editorial Vid, in Spain by Planeta DeAgostini, in Taiwan by Tong Li Publishing, in Hungary by Mangafan, and in Vietnam by TVM Comics.A spin-off  volume, titled Love Com Two, was released on 25 September 2012. It contains the one-shot chapter Love Com Deluxe (published in Deluxe Margaret on 28 March 2009), the three-chapter story Love Com Two (published in Betsuma Two from 12 May to 13 July 2012), and Nakahara's one-shot story Honey Going.


==== Volumes ====


=== Live-action film ===
Love Com was adapted into a live action film, directed by Kitaji Ishikawa with screenplay by Osamu Suzuki. It starred Ema Fujisawa as Risa Koizumi and Teppei Koike as Atsushi Ōtani. It was released in theaters on 15 July 2006, and on DVD on 1 January 2007.
An English-subtitled DVD was released in North America by Viz Media on 19 February 2008. In January 2024, Discotek Media announced that they had licensed the film, and it is set to be released on Blu-ray in March of the same year.


=== Anime ===
The anime television series was produced by Toei Animation and directed by Konosuke Uda, with music by Hironosuke Sato and character designs by Hideaki Maniwa. The opening theme songs were "Kimi + Boku = Love?" (キミ+ボク=LOVE?) by Tegomass (episodes 1–13) and "Hey! Say!" by Hey! Say! 7 (episodes 14–24); the ending themes were "Kiss ~ Kaerimichi no Love Song~" (キッス〜帰り道のラブソング) by Tegomass (episodes 1–13) and "Bon Bon" by Hey! Say! 7 (episodes 14–24). It was broadcast on TBS, CBC, and MBS from 7 April 2007 to 29 September 2007.In April 2012, Discotek Media announced that they will distribute the Love Com anime on DVD in North America in one subtitled boxset, which was released on 16 July 2013. In October 2023, Discotek Media announced during a livestream that it will receive an English dub produced by Sound Cadence Studios for the first time, and it was released on Blu-ray on 30 January 2024. The staff for the localization garnered controversy when writer Brendan Blaber wrote on social media that he and fellow writer Marissa Lenti hated the original show, criticized its writing and voice acting, and changed the script and character personalities in an attempt to make the show watchable. He also stated they re-wrote transphobic parts of the show. Discotek Media stated they would no longer work with Blaber as a result of his admittance of this, though also defended the changes by stating dubs often "punch up the comedy" of anime and that all changes were approved by the show's original producers.


==== Episodes ====


== Reception ==
Love Com won the 49th Shogakukan Manga Award for the shōjo category. The English edition of Love Com has been favorably reviewed, with praise especially for Nakahara's comedic timing, sympathetic characters, and deft depictions of emotions. A reviewer at Anime News Network praised it as "the standard by which all other modern romantic comedies should be measured" for its handling of the range of its characters' emotions. The first volume was named by the Young Adult Library Services Association as among the best graphic novels for teens for 2007.The live-action film of Love Com was named by Young Adult Library Services Association as one of 16 films that are 2009 Fabulous Films for Young Adults on the theme of coming of age around the world.


== Notes ==


== References ==


== Further reading ==
Santos, Carlo (13 November 2007). "All the Lovely Parasytes - Right Turn Only!". Anime News Network.


== External links ==
Official manga website at Shueisha at the Wayback Machine (archived 2007-01-28) (in Japanese)
Official manga website at Viz Media (in English)
Official manga website at Madman Entertainment at the Wayback Machine (archived 2016-04-06) (in English)
Official anime website at Toei Animation (in Japanese)
Official anime website at TBS (in Japanese)
Official live-action film website (in Japanese)
Official PlayStation 2 game website at the Wayback Machine (archived 2007-04-09) (in Japanese)
Love Com at IMDb 
Love*Com (manga) at Anime News Network's encyclopedia