Problem Children are Coming from Another World, aren't they? (Japanese: 問題児たちが異世界から来るそうですよ?, Hepburn: Mondaiji-tachi ga Isekai Kara Kuru Sō Desu yo?), also known as Mondaiji (問題児), is a Japanese light novel series written by Tarō Tatsunoko and illustrated by Yū Amano. An anime adaptation by Diomedéa aired from January 11, 2013, to March 15, 2013. Part 1 of the series ended on April 1, 2015, with twelve volumes total with Part 2 beginning on June 1, 2015, under the new title Last Embryo (ラストエンブリオ, Rasuto Enburio) and a new illustrator, momoco.


== Plot ==
Three children, Sakamaki Izayoi, Kudō Asuka, and Kasukabe Yō, live dull lives because they possess unmatched psychic powers. One day, they receive an envelope that transports them to Little Garden, a place of supernatural powers called "Gifts." There, the residents use Gifts to play high-stakes games known as Gift Games so as to earn wealth and prestige for their communities. So, the three children join the fallen "No Name" community and resolve to help it regain its prosperity. As they learn more about Little Garden, they decide to overthrow the tyrannical Demon Lords.


== Characters ==


=== Main ===
Izayoi Sakamaki (逆廻 十六夜, Sakamaki Izayoi)
Voiced by: Shintarō Asanuma (Japanese); Jessie James Grelle (English)
An arrogant boy who often tries to solve problems with violence, yet he is also incredibly intelligent. He was bored of his old world and is currently searching for anything fun in the Little Garden. His gift is "Code: Unknown," according to the "Gift Card", a "Fragment of Laplace," which cannot figure out his ability. His natural ability is the power to negate and destroy other gifts. Izayoi is also an expert on mythology thanks to his adopted mother, and he is a genius tactician and analyst. In volume 3, it is revealed that Izayoi's adopted mother is the former strategist of the "No Names", and his powers are that he is able to destroy stars. Summoned from an unnamed year in the 2010s, his most important goal is "having fun."Black Rabbit (黒ウサギ, Kuro Usagi)
Voiced by: Iori Nomizu (Japanese); Jessica Calvello (English)
A rabbit-eared girl who resides in the Little Garden and is the one who summoned the problem children. She often tries to be serious but easily gets flustered. When using her power, her blue hair turns pink as she gains increased power. This also happens at other times, such as when Izayoi promised his aid to her community or when enjoying a bath with the girls. One of Black Rabbit's gifts is the "Spear of Indra", a powerful legendary weapon that allows her to control lightning. She also has enormous leg strength and speed equaling Izayoi's. She is also a victim to the pervertedness of Izayoi and Shiroyasha.Asuka Kudō (久遠 飛鳥, Kudō Asuka)
Voiced by: Sarah Emi Bridcutt (Japanese); Nancy Novotny (English)
A rich young lady who has the Gift "Authority", use her authority to command others with her words. It also has the ability to control other gifts and strengthen an object's power as long as the power of the object is weaker than the power of her gift. She owns another Gift called Dean, a massive giant Golem. Summoned from an unnamed year right after World War II, her most important goal is "understanding others."Yō Kasukabe (春日部 耀, Kasukabe Yō)
Voiced by: Megumi Nakajima (Japanese); Brittney Karbowski (English)
A quiet young girl whose gift, which is called "Genome Tree - Non Priorum", was a pendant given to her by her father. It bestows her the ability to speak to animals and use the abilities of any animal she is able to befriend. She is often accompanied by a calico cat who is the first animal she befriends with her power, which allowed her to be able to walk again, after being crippled in a hospital. Summoned from an unnamed year in the distant future, her most important goal is "making friends."


=== Others ===
Jin Russel (ジン・ラッセル, Jin Rasseru)
Voiced by: Hiromi Igarashi (Japanese); Kalin Coates (English)
The current leader of the community "No Name". He is the oldest of the children in the community.Shiroyasha (白夜叉)
Voiced by: Satomi Arai (Japanese); Luci Christian (English)
A senior official at Thousand Eyes, Floor Master on the East Side, Demon Lord of the White Night, spirit of the sun and white night. Her headquarters are located in 4-digit gate number #3345. She has blue-white hair, cat-like yellow eyes, and is small of stature. She dresses in a yukata and is also quite perverted. Her control of the sun allows her to create heat blasts up to 7000 degrees Celsius.Riri (リリ)
Voiced by: Shiori Mikami (Japanese); Margaret McDonald (English)
One of the members of the community "No Name". She is a young anthropomorphic fox. It's later revealed that her mother was sent to a Gift Game and she never came back.Leticia Draculair (レティシア・ドラクレア, Retishia Dorakurea)
Voiced by: Yuiko Tatsumi (Japanese); Carli Mosier (English)
A former member of "No Name". She was a Vampire Lord whose title was stripped upon being turned into a slave following her community's fall. She later regains her powers, but agrees to work as a maid for the community. Even as a maid she helps protect the community. Although she is usually seen her "loli form", she also has a more mature form that can be seen when she is using more advanced magic.Sandra Dortlake (サンドラ＝ドルトレイク, Sandora Dorutoreiku)
Voiced by: Kaori Sadohara (Japanese); Cynthia Martinez (English)
One of the floor masters, she is a young girl who is a friend of Jin and Riri. She has dragonoid features and can use fire in her attacks.Black Percher (ペスト, Pesuto)
Voiced by: Chiwa Saitō (Japanese); Hilary Haag (English)
Unofficial Demon Lord and Leader of Grim Grimoire Hamlin. She is the embodiment of the 80 million evil spirits that were created during the Black Plague. She later becomes one of Jin's summons.


== Media ==


=== Light novels ===
Part 1

Part 2


=== Manga ===
Mondaiji-tach ga isekai kara kuru sou desu yo? is a seinen manga series that began serialization in Comp Ace with Nanamomo Rio as the illustrator. Covering volumes 1 and 2 of the light novel and ran alongside the anime, though outlasting it as the eighteen chapters were released once a month. The manga is more faithful to the light novel and has scenes the anime does not. 

Mondaiji-tachi ga isekai kara kuru sou desu yo? Z is a shonen spin off manga written and illustrated by Anri Sakano. It ran in Age Premium during the run of the anime and after it. Volumes 1 and 2 take place after the events of volume 2 of the light novel, and by extension the anime, while volume 3 takes place after volume 5. 


=== Anime ===
An anime television adaptation produced by Diomedéa aired on Tokyo MX from January 11, 2013, to March 15, 2013, and later on other stations. The series was simulcast by Crunchyroll and Anime on Demand. The opening theme is "Black † White" by Iori Nomizu whilst the ending theme is "To Be Continued?" by Kaori Sadohara. In 2015, it aired on Anime Network On Demand on DIRECTV with English subtitles.


== References ==


== External links ==
Official light novel website (in Japanese)
Last Embryo light novel website (in Japanese)
Official anime website (in Japanese)
Problem Children Are Coming from Another World, Aren't They? (anime) at Anime News Network's encyclopedia