Tamako Love Story is a 2014 Japanese anime romantic comedy film directed by Naoko Yamada. It is a sequel of the 2013 TV series Tamako Market produced by Kyoto Animation. The film was released in Japan on April 26, 2014, and has been licensed by Sentai Filmworks in North America.


== Plot ==
Now high school seniors, Tamako and the Baton Club decide to participate in a marching competition, while Mochizō mulls over his romantic interest in Tamako in addition to preparing to attend college in Tokyo for film-making. Under pressure from Midori, at the riverbank, he tells Tamako of his future plans and confesses his love to her. Tamako is taken aback and runs away; over the next few days, she remains distracted by the event as she struggles over her own feelings and coming up with an answer for Mochizō. When her grandfather is hospitalized, Tamako and Mochizō stay behind, during which he tells her to forget his confession. After the Baton Club's performance, Midori lies to Tamako that Mochizō is transferring schools to Tokyo (in reality, he was simply visiting for entrance exams), which prompts her to follow him to the train station. After stopping him from boarding his train, Tamako confesses to him.


== Cast ==


== Production and release ==
Kyoto Animation announced the film sequel to the 2013 anime series Tamako Market on December 18, 2013. Most of the staff has returned to produce the film and featured the same cast as the television series. In contrast to the anime series, which focuses on everyday life comedy, the film focuses more on romance and drama.
Tamako Love Story was in theatres in Japan on April 26, 2014, paired with a short film featuring Dera titled Dera-chan of the Southern Islands, directed by Tatsuya Ishihara. The film's opening theme is "Koi no Uta" (恋の歌) by Mamedai Kitashirakawa (Keiji Fujiwara). The film's ending theme is a different version of "Koi no Uta" sung by Aya Suzaki and the film's main theme song "Principle" (プリンシプル) is also by Suzaki.
Sentai Filmworks has licensed the film in North America. Anime Limited also acquired the film for release in the United Kingdom and Ireland. One of the characters, Shiori Asagiri, is voiced in English by Francis Caorotts, instead of Krystal LaPorte, who was terminated by Sentai in February 2016.


== Notes ==


== References ==


== External links ==
Official website (in Japanese)
Official website at Kyoto Animation
Official website at Sentai Filmworks
Tamako Love Story (film) at Anime News Network's encyclopedia
Tamako Love Story at IMDb