Gunbuster, known in Japan as Top o Nerae! (トップをねらえ!, Toppu o Nerae!, Aim for the Top!), is a Japanese OVA anime series produced by Bandai Visual, Victor, and Gainax and released from 1988 to 1989. It was the directorial debut of Hideaki Anno, best known as the creator and director of Neon Genesis Evangelion. The title is a combination of the titles of classic tennis manga and anime Aim for the Ace! and hit action drama film Top Gun, whose plot inspired Gunbuster's. To celebrate Gainax's 20th anniversary in 2004, a sequel to Gunbuster, Diebuster (or Gunbuster 2), was released as an OVA. The sequel features new characters and mecha, but retains the format and many of the concepts of the original series.


== Plot ==
In 2015, a space expedition fleet led by Admiral Yuzo Takaya is destroyed by space monsters (宇宙怪獣, Uchū Kaijū). Six years later, Takaya's daughter Noriko enlists in the Space Academy in Okinawa. She is suddenly selected with senior student Kazumi Amano to represent Japan in an upcoming space expedition. When it is known across the academy that she is the daughter of Yuzo, and that Coach Koichiro Ohta was one of the survivors of the 2015 space attack, Noriko is subjected to bullying and harassment. Ohta, however, believes Noriko has the same potential as Kazumi, and through "hard work and guts" (努力と根性, Doryoku to konjō), she strives to become the best Machine Weapon pilot and take control of the experimental giant robot Gunbuster to help Earth win the war against the space monsters.


== Characters ==
Noriko Takaya (タカヤ・ノリコ, Takaya Noriko)
Voiced by: Noriko Hidaka (Japanese); Kiane Chula King (English)
Originally from Osaka, Noriko enlists in the space academy in Okinawa to follow the footsteps of her father Yuzo. Because Yuzo was the captain of the Luxion fleet that was attacked by the space monsters in 2015, Noriko has been nicknamed the "Daughter of Defeat" (全滅娘, Zenmetsu Musume) by other students at the space academy who accuse her of nepotism. She is further subjected to bullying when Koichiro "Coach" Ohta selects her with senior student Kazumi Amano to represent Japan as part of the Top Squadron program. When Ohta convinces her that she has the same potential as Kazumi, Noriko undergoes intense training to improve her piloting skills and prove her peers wrong before venturing to space with Kazumi. Noriko was named after the wife of Gainax storyboard artist Shinji Higuchi.Kazumi Amano (アマノ・カズミ, Amano Kazumi)
Voiced by: Rei Sakuma (Japanese); Melissa Sternenberg (English)
Nicknamed the "Big Sister" (お姉様, Onēsama) by her peers, Kazumi is the top Machine Weapon pilot of the Okinawa Girls' Academy. She quickly becomes friends with Noriko, but questions Ohta's decision to pair her with the freshman Noriko. Kazumi was named after Kazumi Okada (née Amano), who was the wife of GAINAX CEO Toshio Okada at the time.Koichiro "Coach" Ohta (オオタ・コウイチロウ / 太田 浩一郎 (コーチ), Ōta Kōichirō (Kōchi))
Voiced by: Norio Wakamoto (Japanese); Bradley Gareth (English)
The Machine Weapon coach of the Okinawa Girls' Academy and head of the Gunbuster development program. Ohta was a survivor of the space monsters' attack on the Luxion fleet in 2015, having lost sight on his right eye and sustaining injuries on his right leg that require him to use a cane. He is always seen wearing aviator sunglasses to conceal the scar across his right eye. Because Captain Yuzo Takaya helped him escape during the attack, Ohta selects Noriko and trains her as a debt of honor to the captain. Ohta was named after manga artist Mindanao (眠田直), whose real name was Kōichirō Ōta. The cane Ohta uses is an homage to Dan Moroboshi, based on his appearance in the 1974 TV series Ultraman Leo.Jung Freud (ユング・フロイト, Yungu Furoito)
Voiced by: Maria Kawamura (Japanese); Alexandra Yastishock (English)
A Machine Weapon pilot based on the Soviet Union's moon base, Jung Freud develops a fierce rivalry with Kazumi over their piloting skills. Her name is derived from Swiss psychiatrist Carl Jung and Austrian neurologist Sigmund Freud.Captain Tatsumi Tashiro (タシロ・タツミ, Tashiro Tatsumi)
Voiced by: Tamio Ōki (Japanese); Bill Jenkins (English)
Captain of the space naval ship Exelion (ヱクセリヲン, Ekuserion). After the decommissioned Exelion is detonated to destroy a massive space monster fleet outside the Solar System, Tashiro becomes admiral of the new flagship Eltreum (ヱルトリウム, Erutoriumu). He was named after Atsumi Tashiro (田代 敦巳, Tashiro Atsumi), president of animation studio Group TAC.Deputy Chief (副長, Fukuchō)
Voiced by: Tomomichi Nishimura
Tashiro's second-in-command aboard the Exelion. His real name is never mentioned throughout the series.Smith Toren (スミス・トーレン, Sumisu Tōren)
Voiced by: Kazuki Yao (Japanese); Jason Liebrecht (English)
An American Machine Weapon pilot, Smith meets Noriko after they are dared by their respective dormitories to wander around the Exelion during warp. Smith and Noriko initially do not get along with each other due to differing personalities, but after Kazumi dissolves her partnership with Noriko out of fear for Noriko's safety, Noriko and Smith become partners. During the Top Squadron's first sortie at the Leaf 64 star system, Smith is killed, leaving Noriko with the guilt of not being able to help him during battle. Smith was named after Canadian translator Toren Smith, who lived with Gainax staff during his stay in Japan.Kimiko Higuchi (ヒグチ・キミコ, Higuchi Kimiko)
Voiced by: Yuriko Fuchizaki (ep. 1); Masako Katsuki (eps. 5–6) (Japanese); Lisa Ortiz (English)
Noriko's best friend at the academy. By the time Noriko returns to Earth in 2032, Kimiko becomes married and has a daughter. Kimiko was named after the wife of Gainax animator Takami Akai.Takami Akai (アカイ・タカミ, Akai Takami)
Voiced by: Yuriko Fuchizaki (Japanese); Cristina Vee (English)
Kimiko's daughter. When Noriko first meets her in 2032, Takami is three years old. By 2048, she is a senior student at the academy.Reiko Kashiwara (カシハラ・レイコ, Kashihara Reiko)
Voiced by: Masako Katsuki (Japanese); Krystal LaPorte (English)
Kazumi's classmate and the second best Machine Weapon pilot in the Okinawa Girls' Academy. Kashiwara is furious over Ohta's decision to pair Noriko with Kazumi that she challenges Noriko to a duel. Despite being more experienced, Kashiwara loses the duel after Noriko executes the "Inazuma Kick" (イナズマキック, Inazuma Kikku, lit. "Lightning Kick"). By 2032, Kashiwara becomes the school's coach and eventually the principal by 2048.Yuzo Takaya (タカヤ・ユウゾウ, Takaya Yūzō)
Voiced by: Masashi Hirose (OVA); Katsunosuke Hori (movie) (Japanese); Brett Weaver (English)
Noriko's father and Admiral of the ship Luxion (るくしおん, Rukushion). He was killed when the space monsters attacked his fleet at the Perseus Arm in 2015.


== Releases ==


=== Japan ===
Gunbuster was originally released in Japan by Bandai Visual over three volumes on VHS and LaserDisc, with two episodes per volume. It was then re-released on an LD box set in 1995, featuring two new Science Lesson episodes. The series was released on Region 2 DVD in 2001. A remastered four-disc DVD set was released in 2004 with dramatically improved image quality and new extras such as three short animations, a rough cut of episode five and an unmatted version of episode 6. In addition, a supplemental DVD titled Gunbuster Perfect Guide was released, featuring exclusive interviews with the staff and voice cast plus a 161-page book with original artwork and production notes.In 2006, a theatrical version of Gunbuster was released in Japan, featuring a 5.1 soundtrack, containing new sound effects, the original score and re-recorded dialogue by the original Japanese voice actors. The feature-length film is an abridged version of the original OVA series, using the same animated footage as the original. It was released as a double feature with a condensed version of Diebuster as Gunbuster & Diebuster: The Gattai Movie!! (トップをねらえ!&トップをねらえ2! 合体劇場版!!, Toppu wo Nerae! & Toppu wo Nerae 2! Gattai Gekijōban!!).
Bandai Visual released a Blu-ray set of the OVA series with extras. It was released in Japan on 24 February 2012, in regular and complete limited edition sets. Both sets feature the newly re-recorded 5.1 audio (that was used for the theatrical compilation), along with the original 2.0 mix, remastered video, a brand new short, audio commentary, video shorts, and a 16-page booklet. The complete edition also included a bonus disc, full of production materials, never before seen video footage and a 100-page booklet.


=== North America ===
Gunbuster was first released with English subtitles in North America starting on 1 February 1990 on VHS by U.S. Renditions as their first release. It was later re-released verbatim in 1996 by Manga Entertainment after U.S. Renditions ceased operations.On 24 November 2006, Bandai Visual USA released a limited, region-free reprint of the 2004 Region 2 remastered DVD set exclusively at Kinokuniya Bookstores. The set lacked any translation and was an exact 1:1 copy of the R2. It was marketed to die-hard fans of the series and was meant to cease distribution upon the R1 release.On 20 February 2007, Bandai Visual USA officially released the remastered Region 1 DVD box set under their Honneamise label, with the series spanning over three discs like the R2 and R0. However, the set lacked the fourth disc of the previous R0, which contained the rough episode five and unmatted episode six, along with other period extras.While it is common for anime released in North America to come with an English-dubbed audio track, no English-language audio track has been released at the time. In an interview with Anime on DVD, Jonathan Clements stated that "the Music & Effects track has been lost, and [an English dub] would need to be reconstructed from the ground up".Gunbuster: The Movie was released on Blu-ray in the U.S. by Honneamise. It was initially released on DVD as the box set Gunbuster vs. Diebuster: Aim for the Top! The GATTAI!! Movie. A high-definition Blu-ray version was released in November 2008 by Bandai Entertainment (following the liquidation of Bandai Visual USA and Bandai Entertainment's acquisition of the Honneamise label). Maiden Japan later licensed Gunbuster: The Movie on Blu-ray and DVD on 17 May 2016. It was re-released by Sentai Filmworks on 13 September 2022.Discotek Media released Gunbuster on Blu-ray on 30 May 2023, with a dub produced by Sound Cadence Studios, marking the first time the OVA series was dubbed in English.


=== United Kingdom and Europe ===
Gunbuster was released in the United Kingdom by Kiseki Films on a single region-free DVD on 20 April 2001, but this release suffered from poor video quality and inconsistent subtitles. It was also criticized for lack of advertised extras and the editing of a scene with full-frontal nudity.Gunbuster: The Movie was released on Blu-ray by Beez Entertainment in the UK in 2008. Anime Limited released the OVA series on Blu-ray in August 2023 in two editions: standard Blu-ray and Collector's Edition; the latter includes a 48-page art book and a double-sided A3 poster. The Blu-ray includes Discotek Media's English dub.


== Episodes ==


== Music ==

The first soundtrack album Top wo Nerae! Ongaku Daizukan (トップをねらえ！音楽大図鑑, lit. Aim for the Top! Music Encyclopedia) was released in Japan through Victor Entertainment on 7 June 1989. It features the opening theme "Active Heart" (アクティブ・ハート, Akutibu Hāto) and ending theme "Try Again...!" (トライ Again・・・！, Torai Again...!) by Noriko Sakai, plus the insert song "Top wo Nerae! Fly High" (トップをねらえ! ～Fly High～) by Noriko Hidaka and Rei Sakuma, Kohei Tanaka's score for the series' first four episodes, and two original radio dramas. The CD release also includes "Kimi mo Onkyō Kantoku! Top wo Nerae! Naserifu Dai Kōshin" (キミも音響監督！トップをねらえ！名セリフ大行進, lit. "You Can Also Be the Sound Director! Aim for the Top! Parade of Famous Lines"), a collection of sound clips by the voice cast. The album was reissued on 18 December 1996.The second soundtrack album Top wo Nerae! Ultra Sound Collection: Tanaka Kohei no Sekai (トップをねらえ!ウルトラ・サウンド・コレクション ～田中公平の世界～, lit. Aim for the Top! Ultra Sound Collection: The World of Kohei Tanaka) was released on 21 March 1990. It features more of Tanaka's score for all six episodes, plus the image song "Tobe! Gunbuster" (翔べ!ガンバスター, lit. "Fly! Gunbuster") by Kazuki Yao, one radio drama, and the symphonic suite "Kōkyōshi Gunbuster" (交響詩「GUNBUSTER」, lit. "Symphonic Poem Gunbuster"). Like the first soundtrack, this album was reissued on 18 December 1996.A box set titled Sound Collection of Gunbuster (トップをねらえ!響綜覧, Top wo Nerae! Kyōsōran) was released on 24 August 1994. The three-disc set compiles the first two soundtracks and adds more background music and dialogue tracks, as well as new songs and karaoke tracks.FlyingDog released the soundtrack Top wo Nerae! Ongaku-shū (トップをねらえ！音楽集, lit. Aim for the Top! Music Collection) on 26 March 2013, exclusively on music download and streaming media platforms. The album compiles the first two soundtracks, omitting the opening and ending themes, radio dramas, and character voice clips.


== Manga ==
In 1989, Bandai published Comic Gunbuster (コミックガンバスター, Komikku Ganbasutā), an anthology manga featuring side stories of the OVA's characters. The manga ran for two volumes.In 2010, Kadokawa Shoten published a new manga adaptation of Gunbuster, with artwork by Kabocha. The manga ran for five volumes, with the final volume released in 2013.


== Merchandise ==


=== Toys ===
In the mid-1990s, Kaiyodo, in association with Xebec, released a PVC figure of Gunbuster. Though limited in posability, the figure featured an extra set of arms and hands, as well as the weapons Buster Tomahawk and Buster Home Run from the radio dramas. In 2005, Kaiyodo released a newer figure sculpted by Katsuhisa Yamaguchi (of Revoltech fame). Though shorter than the original, this newer figure was more detailed and poseable than its predecessor. A newer version of Gunbuster was released in the Revoltech line as Figure #101 in 2011. Once again sculpted by Yamaguchi, it is capable of transforming into both Buster Machines, and has parts to replicate tearing out the power generator core.In November 2006, Bandai released a large diecast toy replica of Gunbuster under the Soul of Chogokin line. Just like in episode 5 of the series, the toy is a combination of Buster Machines 1 and 2. It includes an array of weapons that were used in both the anime and radio drama, as well as a miniature of Kazumi's RX-7 Machine Weapon and a display stand designed to resemble a launch pad. Also included are accessories that can be used to replicate the final scene in episode 6, where Gunbuster removes its degeneracy generator core from its chest. The toy was re-released in September 2015 as "GX-34R Gunbuster (Buster Alloy Color Ver.)", featuring a dark blue metallic finish. In 2013, Bandai released a smaller, more affordable Gunbuster figure under the Super Robot Chogokin line. Despite lacking the transformation feature of the Soul of Chogokin toy, this figure features extreme poseability and comes with two Buster Home Runs and parts for the Double Buster Collider, as well as the power generator core parts. A Tamashii Web exclusive "Hard Work and Guts" Armament Set (努力と根性の武装セット, Doryoku to Konjō no Busō Setto), released in July 2013, included the Buster Shield, Buster Missile arms, two Buster Tomahawks and effect parts for the Buster Colliders and Super Inazuma Kick.Studio HalfEye also released a transformable replica of Gunbuster in 2006. In contrast to Bandai's diecast toy, this figure is made of resin plastic and priced higher.Hong Kong-based toy company CCS Toys released a premium Gunbuster figure in February 2024 to commemorate the 35th anniversary of the OVA series.Figures of Noriko have also been manufactured as well. Yellow Submarine (a division of Takara) released a poseable doll, while Kotobukiya and Kaiyodo sold non-poseable figures. Bandai had a limited-edition Noriko & Nono figure set bundled with the North America and Japan DVD release of Gunbuster vs. Diebuster Aim For The Top! The GATTAI!! Movie. A Nendoroid figure of Noriko by the Good Smile Company is set for release in June 2024.


=== Model kits ===
In November 2019, Aoshima Bunka Kyozai released a 1/1000 scale Gunbuster model kit. The kit was reissued in August 2020 as the "Black Hole Starship Edition" (縮退炉エディション, Shukutairo Edishon), featuring additional weapons and accessories. In October 2023, the kit was reissued as the "Super Inazuma Kick Ver." (スーパーイナズマキックver., Sūpā Inazuma Kikku ver.), which includes effect parts and a display stand to replicate Gunbuster's signature attack.In November 2021, Bandai released a Gunbuster kit from their Shokugan Modeling Project (SMP) Alternative Destiny line. In February 2022, an online-exclusive expansion kit called the "Infinite Super Inazuma Kick Set" (∞スーパーイナズマキックセット, Infinito Sūpā Inazuma Kikku Setto) was released, featuring additional weapons and accessories.Kaiyodo released a Gunbuster model kit in November 2023. The kit includes figurines of Noriko and Kazumi.


=== Video games ===
On 3 February 2005, Bandai released Top wo Nerae! Gunbuster for the PlayStation 2 console, developed by Shade. It expanded the series with a game that played out as an entirely new third edition that added to the themes of the original two animated series. The 25-episode story featured both roaming adventure scenes where defense pilot Noriko Takaya converses with characters and collects items to develop the story, as well as action scenes that put Noriko and co-pilot Kazumi Amano into the cockpit of Gunbuster to battle in heated combat. The action parts allow the player to perform all the trademark moves like the Buster Beam, Homing Laser and Super Lighting Kick, with Noriko shouting out the commands with just as much enthusiasm as Noriko does in the show.In March 2010, Heiwa Corporation released the pachinko game CR Top wo Nerae!.Cybernetic Hi-School, the third installment of Gainax's eroge strip-quiz video game series for the PC-9801 and MSX, focused on characters from Gunbuster.


== In other media ==
Gunbuster has been a regular character in the Super Robot Wars franchise since its debut in Super Robot Wars F Final in 1998.


== See also ==
 1980s portal


== Notes ==


== References ==


== External links ==
Official website
Gunbuster at IMDb 
Gunbuster (anime) at Anime News Network's encyclopedia
Gunbuster at Curlie
Ain't It Cool News review
"Top o Nerae" — The Encyclopedia of Science Fiction